<!-- 
TODO : ESSENTIAL preferences

-->
# Application preference

This page allows you to change global preferences of the application.

## Global

### Allow sending error data

Allow sending error data to FLUX:: support. All the data are sent anonymously.

_Off by default_

### Reopen last session on startup

The last opened session will be automatically reopened at the start of SPAT Revolution.

_On by default_

### Use Metric System

Toggle between the imperial system and the metric system.

_On by default_

### Temperature

Change the temperature used in the delay line calculation.

_Default is 20 °C_


### Edit Frame Rate

Define how many times per second the UI is refreshed.

_Default is 30 Hz_

### Engine Frame Rate

Define how many times per second the engine is refreshed.

_Default is 60 Hz_

### Meter Default Refresh Rate

Define how many times per second the meters are refreshed

_Default is 30 Hz_

### Language

Allow to change the language of SPAT Revolution. English, German, Japanese, French, Spanish are available. If you wish to help us to translate SPAT in another language, don’t hesitate to contact us.

_Default is English_

### Reset to default

Reset back all the global parameters to default.

### Import/Export Preferences

Allow exporting or import preferences.

## Hardware IO

The hardware IO panel allows choosing the audio interface that can be accessed by SPAT Revolution.

### Devices

This menu allows selecting the audio interface. SPAT Revolution audio engine supports all devices compatible with ASIO (Windows) or CoreAudio (macOS).
Note that you should select “none” when using the Local Audio Path connections.

### Sampling Rate

Select the sampling rate used by the audio engine. The _external_ button force the application to follow the audio interfaces.

### Block Size

The block size defines the global latency added by SPAT Revolution. The lower it is set, the lower the latency is, but the greater the CPU consumption is.

### Show settings

This button open the driver audio panel of the selected interface, if it exists.

## User Interface

This panel contains some general user preferences.

### Anti-Alias

When enabled, this option smooth out lines in the graphic engine.
If you are using an Intel-based computer without a dedicated GPU, we highly recommend deactivating this option to improve performances. 

_On by default_

### Setup Wire

When on, the wires between blocks in the setup page are splined. When off, they are straight.

_On by default_

### Theme

Allows switching between the dark theme and the light theme of SPAT Revolution.

_Set on “dark” by default_

### Shortcuts window

Display the list of all the shortcut of SPAT Revolution.

## OSC Main

This panel contains basic OSC options.

### OSC Enable

Enable or disable the OSC communication between SPAT Revolution and other devices.

### Enable commands log

Allows displaying the OSC messages in the application’s console.

### Output rate

Define OSC output rates in milliseconds.

### Export Parameters

This button exports the OSC parameters to a text file.

## OSC Connections

This panel allows creating OSC connection between SPAT Revolution and other devices, like tablets, phones, computers and many others. More information is available in the third party section.

## HRTF

The HRTF panel allows setting up some generic options for HRTF handling.

### Default HRTF

Choose the default HRTF used in binaural room or binaural monitoring blocks
### Manage HRTFs

The button open a window that allows downloading or removed HRTF. You can also import your own HRTF from this menu.
## Room

This panel allows changing some room properties. This is where you find most of the room options in the Essential version.

### Room gain

Change the gain of all the rooms of SPAT Revolution.

## Signal Generator

Here, you will find the options related to the test signals generated by the application itself.
### Gain

Configure the signal generator gain.
### Signal Type

Configure the type of signal generator.
## Engine

This panel allows to modify the behavior of the SPAT Revolution engine.
### Automation

#### Automation Rate

Define the automation rate in milliseconds.
### Audio Processing
#### Max Number Of Cores

Define the number of CPU cores used by the engine.

#### Parallel Profile

Define how the CPU resources are spread among the cores available. In _Max Distribution_ mode, the CPU resources are evenly spread among the available cores.
In _Favor First Core_, the engine will fill the CPU cores one by one. The _Balanced Distribution_ mode is a compromise between both.

### Blacktrax RTTrPM

See the integration chapter about BlackTrax.
