# Open Stage Control

Open Stage Control is a free and open source software that allows to create web remote. These web remotes can then communicate with Spat Revolution using OSC. One major advantage is that this software runs on all major plateform including macOS and Windows.

!> Be carefull to not mixed up Open Sound Control, which is a protocol allowing to send remote data on the network, and Open Stage Control, which is an app that use Open Sound Control. Each time OSC is mentionned in the Spat Revolution user guide, we are refering to Open Sound Control.

The software is downloadable [here](https://openstagecontrol.ammd.net/)

Compare to solution like Lemur of TouchOSC, Open Stage Control works in two steps. First, we connect to Open Stage Control with some kind of touch able device (an iPad for example) through a local web server. Then, we connect both Spat Revolution and Open Stage control OSC

## Installing the application

Go to the [dowload page](https://openstagecontrol.ammd.net/download) and choose the appropriate binary in regards of your OS. For detail installation steps, consult the Open Stage Control documentation [here](https://openstagecontrol.ammd.net/docs/getting-started/introduction/).

## Configuring the app

To make a successful connection between Open Stage Control and Spat Revolution, we need to configure four things:

+ the *send* info
+ the *load* info
+ the *port* info
+ and finally the *osc-port* info

!> Always start and configure Open Stage Control before Spat Revolution!

**Send**

This is the OSC output to Spat Revolution. Simply enter the ip adresse of the computer hosting Spat Revolution and the targeted application port.

Examples :

+ *127.0.0.1:8000* In this case, we are exepected to have Spat Revolution running on the same computer as Open Stage Control, with an input port set up on the port 8000.
+ *192.168.1.11:7100* In this case, we assume that Spat Revolution and Open Stage Control do not run on the same computer. the IP address of the computer hosting Spat Revolution is 192.168.1.11 and the input port in Spat Revolution is set to 7100.

!> Remember, application port when working with OSC are arbitrary. Just make sure that the OSC port used are not used by any other app.

**Load**

This is where we load the remote control. You can either create one yourself or use an existing one. *Json* files are expected.

**Port**

This port number is the port dedicated to the web server created by Open Stage Control. Simply enter an arbitrary (and free) port.

**Osc-port**

This is the OSC input from Spat Revolution. Choose a free port number and enter the same value in Spat Revolution.

Once you've properly configured the app, don't forget to launch the service by clicking on the play button in the uper left corner of Open Stage Control.

## Connecting an external device to Open Stage Control

Let say we want to control Spat Revolution with an iPad. We need to connect this iPad to the web server generated by Open Stage Control. To do so, open a web browser and enter the IP and the port of the webserver in the top bar.

For example: http://192.168.1.57:6450 . Here, we assume that the IP address of the computer hosting Open Stage Control is 192.168.1.57, and the **port** number is set to 6450.

## Connecting Open Stage Control to Spat Revolution

Here, we need to define one Input port and one Output port in Spat Revolution. Go to the Preference Menu and locate the OSC Connections panel. Create an Input using the "input | Custom" preset and enter the same port used in the **send** field of Open Stage Control. Then, create an Output using the "output | Custom" preset and enter the same port used in the **osc-port** of Open Stage Control.

## Creating a surface control

To create a dedicated surface control, check the [user documentation]() of Open Stage Control.